# A Cherry on top - The performant, lightweight Python web framework that you've never heard of.

Web servers act as the gatekeepers through which web applications receive, process, and return data to application users. Many developers who work as backend engineers typically are writing code which gets executed because a server call requested it. When it comes to these web servers and their frameworks, Python's options are plentiful. However, only a few of these, such as Django and Flask, receive the bulk of the attention. Not because they are the best per se, but because they have ample documentation and examples which developers can draw inspiration and guidance from.

Neither of these frameworks are my personal go-to for when I need to create server-side applications. No, when I reach for a web server framework on which to build web apps, I almost exclusively use a web framework called CherryPy. In my opinion, CherryPy is one of the more underappreciated web frameworks; given it's testability, it's pythonic nature, and it's raw execution speed.

CherryPy's main drawback is its lack of documentation and examples. People don't use it because they don't see it being used. Not that it isn't being used per se, as some of the biggest web applications in the world are built on CherryPy, including apps like Netflix, Hulu, and YouGov's Crunch. But CherryPy needs more content, and that's what I'm planning to address here.

## What CherryPy does right

CherryPy's architecture is considerably different as compared to other Python web frameworks, and it's this reason that it consistently performs as one of the fastest web frameworks. Other frameworks wrap user code around framework architecture so to achieve functionality. For example, Flask's [`app.route`](https://github.com/pallets/flask/blob/0826be48ed50c9ac73160ba7225715659961a992/src/flask/scaffold.py#L413) decorator engulfs the defined user function with a decorator function that then maps the endpoint to the application instance when the endpoint is called. This [paradigm](https://github.com/pallets/flask/blob/0826be48ed50c9ac73160ba7225715659961a992/src/flask/scaffold.py#L40) of nesting functionality through wrappers by default is what causes the framework to be slow and difficult to test. 

CherryPy's takes a different approach. Instead of wrapping user code within the framework, CherryPy uses hooks points and mounts to implement application configuration, and to point the server to user code instead of engulfing it with framework code. This design pattern allows CherryPy to maintain separation between user code and framework code. One benefit to this approach is that users have the opportunity to adjust configuration without changing the resultant of a user's executables. I.E. in testing, if you instantiate your application objects and test their function and method resultants, you get the original resulting object, and not something that has been convoluted through a series of wrappers. This design pattern is also what allows CherryPy to be fast; in some instances clocking in at `>1ms` response times.

## Hello World

My purpose for this series is to get into some of the more difficult aspects of CherryPy, but I would be remissed if we didn't take the time to do a quick demonstration. In order to get started, all that is necessary is to `pip install cherrypy` - it comes with it's own builtin WSGI server that is more than capable of handling internal traffic. With CherryPy installed, simply import the module and build your application. Now, since this idea of instantiating a CherryPy app to run `HelloWorld` is nothing new, I'm going to go ahead and enumerate some of the internal architecture a little more explicitly so to better demonstrate these design patterns that we've been discussing.

`cherry.py`
```python
class HelloWorld:
    def index(self):
        return "HelloWorld"
    index.exposed = True

def main():
    cherrypy.config.update({
        'server.socket_host': '0.0.0.0'
        })

    app = HelloWorld()

    cherrypy.tree.mount(
        root=app, 
        script_name='/', 
        config=None
    )

    cherrypy.engine.start()
    cherrypy.engine.block()
    

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

Executing this file in the terminal as `python cherry.py` will initialize the CherryPy Engine and serve the method `index` at the root of the application, which in this case is `http://0.0.0.0:8080`.

This example is a tad more difficult then the stereotypical HelloWorld example shown in the [official documentation](https://github.com/cherrypy/cherrypy#readme), but it demonstrates the CherryPy philosophy a bit more explicitly. Firstly, our user code isn't wrapped. In fact, even if you were to use the `@cherrypy.expose` decorator, it'll ultimately just [tag](https://github.com/cherrypy/cherrypy/blob/98929b519fbca003cbf7b14a6b370a3cabc9c412/cherrypy/_helper.py#L31) the method in the same way we've done above, and then simply [return](https://github.com/cherrypy/cherrypy/blob/98929b519fbca003cbf7b14a6b370a3cabc9c412/cherrypy/_helper.py#L32) the original method instead of returning a function wrapper. This allows developers to instantiate the object in test without worrying about dealing with any sort of wrappers engulfing their user code.

Another thing we can see in this example is how routing is handled by the framework. Instead of wrapping function definitions in a framework instance, CherryPy defines a `tree` that user code is mounted to, and routing is handled automatically based on the tree hierarchy. Users mount the root of the app to the root of the engine, and then graph instances of classes upon the root. If this sounds a bit confusing at first, don't worry, we'll address it more explicitly in the next post. This is also where configuration can be defined, but again, we'll save that for a later post and simply define the configuration parameter as `None`.

With that, we can simply call the engine to start and initialize blocking. We can then access the defined endpoint at the URL, either through the browser or programmatically.

```ipython
In [1]: import requests

In [2]: resp = requests.get('http://0.0.0.0:8080')

In [3]: resp.text
Out[3]: 'HelloWorld'

In [4]: %timeit requests.get('http://0.0.0.0:8080')
Out[4]: 1.23 ms ± 16.9 µs per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000 loops each)
```

## Summary

CherryPy is a performant, lightweight Python web framework that powers some of the world's most demanding applications. Over the next few weeks, we'll look into how we can use CherryPy to create our own high-performance web applications.

*If you enjoyed this post, be sure to [follow me](https://www.linkedin.com/in/1mikegrn/) on LinkedIn, where I'll be posting more content regularly. You can find previous content at my blog's website, [https://blog.michaelgreen.dev](https://blog.michaelgreen.dev)*
